"x"
"1" "Martin Scorsese and Robert De Niro seem to have taken a different road to arrive to very familiar places. Forttunately we're all in for the ride. This is a bitter, dark comedy in the tradition of Pietro Germi and Mario Monicelli. In Scorsese's hands it becomes something we've never seen before. De Niro travels unknown territory with the panache of a seasoned explorer. His Rupert Pupkin is a sub Jay Leno without an agent. His hunger is as shallow as his talent. The arrival to Jerry Lewis's house without an invitation trying to impress his girl is one of the most painful studies in modern humiliation ever put on film. I found myself laughing in horror. \"The King of Comedy\" is ripe for a revival. Some people consider it a \"minor\" Scorsese. I disagree. I think it's one of Scorsese and De Niro's best."
"2" "I hate the celebrity culture. I hate the fact that people become famous, just for the sake of being famous. I hate the fact that just because a celebrity gets married or has a child, that's front page news. I hate reality TV. I hate shows like \"Pop Idol\" (or \"American Idol\"), where normal people seem to think they are destined for A-list status. The fact that this film (The King of Comedy) is as old as I am, is either an all too worrying statement on society, or proves that it was way ahead of its time. Maybe that's why I love it so much.De Niro has always amazed me, but the fact that he seems to understand this character so well is a little overwhelming. Whether he is delivering cringeworthy gags to a cardboard audience, or embarrassing himself, obliviously, in front of Jerry Lewis, his consistency is amazing. His motives are understandable to anyone who's ever had a dream. Perhaps it's De Niro's early ambition as an actor, that fuelled this shamefully overlooked performance.Jerry Lewis is perfect as the disgruntled TV host. A man who lives a double-life of hilarious TV personality, with a bitter persona off-screen. You can certainly relate to this man's motivations, his love for his work, but his resistance to allow it run his personal life.The only character I can't totally emphasize with is Sandra Bernhard's Masha (her actions aren't justified as well as De Niro's Rupert). But maybe that just goes with my aforementioned hatred for celebrity culture. The scary thing is, I know that people like this exist, and I didn't for a second, question the feasibility of her performance.As usual, Scorsese shows brilliant control, despite this being one of his most modest works.\"The King of Comedy\" should be looked upon, now more than ever, as a very important film, that has a lot to say about the world we live in and the obsessions that we consume. 9/10"
"3" "From Jerry Lewis's subtle, deeply personal performance, to Robert DeNiro's amazing interpretation of a neurotic nerbish whose fantasy world collides with reality on late night talk TV, \"The King of Comedy\" is a true original that guts the glamour from showbiz and finds it cold and empty inside.  Then there's the media, always ready to create another celebrity, even if he's an autograph hound and hack comic turned kidnapper who believes he's earned a shot in the spotlight.  Cynical and melancholy, at times hilarious, it bombed when first released, but has been surprising video treasure hunters ever since."
"4" "Saw it first time late at night and never thought about sleeping again for a couple of days.  DeNiro nails perfectly the unflappable and determined comic wannabe.  We watch him throughout the whole film, wondering, Is he really just that sure of himself, or is he dangerously deranged?  That question will take you through right to the end. Between Rupert, whose basement (in his mother's house) is decorated like a comedy club, and his oddball chum (S.Bernhard), there's considerable pathos.  Jerry Lewis gives a lot of insight into the real person behind his easygoing public persona.  Part of what makes this movie so compelling is Scorsese's decision to keep the musical score to a minimum.  Music could force the viewer to a conclusion that isn't entirely accurate.  Listening to Rupert's endless exchanges Jerry, and everyone who stands in his way -- as is, without musical coloring -- enhances the \"squirm factor.\"Anyone who has been in the uncomfortable position of coming to regret being nice to someone will relate to this movie.  It's a must-see, and despite being more than 20 years old now, it is not a bit dated./r"
"5" "'The King Of Comedy' is easily Martin Scorsese's most underrated and misunderstood movie. Scorsese and Robert De Niro's previous collaboration was the brilliant boxing biopic 'Raging Bull', generally regarded by most people as a masterpiece. Then the two made 'The King Of Comedy'... What a brave move! You couldn't find a more different movie, but one just as impressive and extraordinary. This movie is disliked by many, deliberately ignored by others. It's a very uncomfortable film. It's a (very) black comedy and is genuinely funny in places, but much of it is embarrassing to watch. Not because it is inept, but because of the believability of De Niro's obnoxious and irritating \"loser\" and wanna be comic Rupert Pupkin. De Niro has made a lot of disappointing movies in the last few years but 'The King Of Comedy' reminds you of just how brilliant he can be. I can't think of many actors who would be brave enough to play this part! Jerry Lewis is a performer I have always disliked, but he is excellent in this movie, probably because he is playing someone very close to himself in real life. The rest of the supporting cast aren't the most obvious choices, led by confrontational comedienne Sandra Bernhard and the \"forgotten\" Charlie's Angel Shelley Hack. Plus there are Tony Randall and a couple of other celebrities playing themselves, and a blink and you'll miss it cameo by The Clash (!). I really admire Scorsese for taking such a risk with this movie, which is one of the most original and provocative ever released by a major Hollywood studio. Bravo! This is must see viewing for not only all Scorsese or De Niro fans, but anyone who appreciates unusual or difficult movies."
"6" "This is one of the most memorable films I have ever seen. The first time I saw it in 1983, my dad took me to see it with my older cousin, who laughed hysterically throughout the film, then said afterwards how much he hated it. That was a memorable moment, but the film itself also made a very large impression on me.  Despite the title, it is anything but a comedy, save for some amusing moments that could pass for dark comedy.The story involves a 34 year old nerd (Robert DeNiro) who wants badly to be a standup comedian, but his only method of trying to attain this goal is by essentially stalking a popular talk show host played by Jerry Lewis.  The performances are amazing, of course DeNiro can never fail at playing someone offbeat and deranged.  Jerry Lewis is very good as the talk show host, and Sandra Bernhard is also well cast as a fellow stalker.  The film is a tough watch as its tense and uncomfortable throughout, yet entertaining and intruiging enough so it never crosses the line into unbearable, which I imagine must have been exactly what filmmaker Scorcese was going for. Overall, the film is a combination of disturbing, entertaining, and unforgettable.  What's more, it holds up extremely well seventeen years later, although it initially did not do well at the box office. Score: 9/10"
"7" "Travis Bickle from \"Taxi Driver\" and Rupert Pupkin from \"The King of Comedy\" are not as unlike as they may first appear.  They are men desperately searching for some meaning in their spiritually empty lives, neither man connecting with anyone else; the consequent strain has driven each to his own brand of insanity.  Both can be likened to Lee Harvey Oswald-men leading lives of quiet desperation, wanting to do something-ANYTHING-to have SOME impact on the world.Pupkin is further removed from reality than Bickle (actually Bickle's attitudes about his environment aren't entirely unreasonable) and it's unlikely he could ever be \"normal\", no matter how much therapy he had. He's lost in his own little world, a world devoid of any real substance.  To him, Heaven would be a place where he would exist solely on TV.  Real life is too messy.\"The King of Comedy\" is the best satire I've seen about the vapidness of society's values and the public's obsession with celebrity.  It has its share of funny moments but the overall effect is deadening.  Even though things went about as well as Pupkin could have expected in the end, what has he gained?  Nothing of any value, though in his delusional mind, he probably would disagree.  Ah, Pupkin!  Ah, humanity!"
"8" "This is a film that would not be half as effective as it is, if it were not for the unbelievable performance by Robert De Niro. He is, without question the best actor to have graced our screens, and though I love the so many other varied genius performances he has become more famous for, I think this to be his finest work.The character he plays draws inevitable comparisons with Travis in 'Taxi Driver', as in both roles he plays individuals so detached from reality, they feel the need to commit criminal acts in order to expel the frustrations they have at their lowly position in society, and how little they can do about it. Travis's frustrations are centered more on the decaying state of society and the streets he drives around, whereas Rupert is simply trying to achieve his life-long ambition of fame and fortune that celebrities on television enjoy. But Rupert is such a clever creation by de Niro. He is detached in a very different way to Travis. Whilst Travis is only too aware of what is going on in society, Rupert has his own little view of how the world works. He fantasises being a celebrated comic to such a degree he convinces himself of events that haven't actually happened (most notably when he starts believing his own lie, that he's been invited to Jerry Lewis' summerhouse, is actually true!) It is a magnificently subtle take on the insane and is the De Niro performance I enjoyed the most.I felt compelled to offer my opinion on De Niro's 10 best roles, so here they are: 10-The Untouchables, 9-Heat, 8-The Godfather Part 2, 7-Midnight Run, 6-Awakenings, 5-Taxi Driver, 4-The Deer Hunter, 3-Raging Bull, 2-Mean Streets, 1-The King Of Comedy"
"9" "Rupert Pupkin was a lost soul who wanted his shot at being in the limelight, and he was willing to go through some very unconventional methods to have it.. Such a compulsive nature is not that unusual, especially considering the fact that Pupkin is a New Yorker!! Rupert Pupkin (Robert De Niro's character) was very impervious to the fact that being a famous television personality requires a lot of patience and perseverance!! The expedition of being a celebrity dictates that you devote a good portion of your time to obligatory publicity ,and that you have a thorough comprehension of the industry's rigid guidelines with regard to standards and practices!! The aggregate requirements to stardom seem very mundane to Rupert Pupkin, Rupert Pupkin's idea of add water and stir success is something that professionals such as Jerry Langford (Jerry Lewis' character) know is not possible!! In the pursuit of such a seemingly glamorous fate, Rupert Pupkin becomes the proverbial recipient of polite shove offs, a stilted Park Ave decorum, and a patronizing demeanor from hatchet men who dish out an underlying belittlement of a Brooklyn simpleton, Rupert Pupkin, and his desire to be a high profile comic!! All of this sparks a perennial state of agitation for Pupkin with his amateurish drive to be an overnight television icon!! The acting in this movie is terrific, Sandra Burnhard, Robert De Niro, and Jerry Lewis are all sensational in this film!! Martin Scorsese, who is one of the greatest directors in the history of movie making, does a remarkable job with this movie!! Surprisingly enough, I found this film to be my favorite Scorsese film out of all of them!! The itemizations and peculiar depictions of pejorative emotional reactions in this movie had a succinct and sorrowful element of reality to them!! Scorsese is very well known for so many excellent movies, and, he is best known for masterpieces such as \"Taxi Driver\" and \"Raging Bull\". Like most Scorsese films, \"King of Comedy\" illustrates aspects of human behavior that are generally misunderstood to the American public!! The intense grasp on such deliberate proclivities with all of the main characters in this film is phenomenal!! \"King of Comedy\" effectuates the intuitiveness of Mr Nobody (Robert De Niro) to be neurotic about getting national attention by way of being on a nighttime talk show!! Coercive disruption of this nature is generally not taken lightly in the real world, but, for innovative movie material, HOW ORIGINAL AND CREATIVE!! The grade this movie gets for originality with relation to the plot, would be an A++!!! New York City emanates such a compounded exuberance in this film, which becomes very conducive to the wry component of erratic behavior that this movie orchestrates!! All in all, \"King of Comedy\" emerges as a resounding winner in the cinema industry!! Word to the wise, please do not try this reckless stunt at home, if you did, the only famous place in New York you will wind up in is New York's world renowned mental health facility called Bellvue!!"
"10" "For some reason, I rarely count any movie in the past 30 years \"a classic\" but I think of this one as such, and that's a compliment. It has stayed with me since the first time I saw it almost 20 years ago.In fact, I've never forgotten the name, \"Rupert Pupkin,\" a strange name made famous by Robert De Niro as the leading actor in this unique drama/comedy/ crime film. De Niro was just outstanding, one of his best efforts in an illustrious career. Jerry Lewis and Sandra Bernhard also were really good here, in supporting roles. Comedians sometimes make great dramatic actors as Lewis has demonstrated in several films. I don't know, frankly, if Bernard has ever done anything remotely as good as this.Biographies of eccentric people usually are interesting and this one more than fits the bill. This movie was not popular with audiences and a number of critics but I think it was superbly done with laugh-out-loud lines as well as subtle humor and great acting. It is a wonderful character study of obsessed fans of celebrities, a pitiful condition that exists even more today.I am not particularly a fan of director Martin Scorcese. Almost all of his films are ultra profane, but not here. There has very little profanity, and none, ironically, by De Niro. The only negative I found was making a hero out of his character, who executes a kidnapping and is richly rewarded for his efforts. Puh-leeze!! I wish Hollywood would stop making heroes out of criminals.If you have a warped sense humor, however, which I do, you'll love this film. I think it is perhaps the best-ever from Scorcese and De Niro."
"11" "In the cannon of Martin Scorsese films, this one stands apart. The film does feature Robert De Niro in the lead, is set in NYC, and includes many of Scorsese's regular behind the camera crew members, but in terms of visuals and drawing attention not the camera, \"The King of Comedy\" represents Scorsese at his most subdued. In this film, Robert De Niro creates one of his most fascinating characters with Rupert Pupkin, a obsessive fan of late night talkshow host Jerry Langford, a wickedly good Jerry Lewis. Pupkin stalks Langford after shows, sets up his own talkshow set in him parents' basement, and is self deluded enough to believe he has a real personal relationship with Langford. The story is a serviceable one for a comedy, but where Scorsese and the cast shine is in the darkness they bring to the comedy. Taken on it's own, the script is not necessarily that dark and in lesser hands might have been a light breezy comedy. De Niro makes Pupkin a likable character, even if it does appear that he must be mentally ill, and never plays him for broad or overt comedy, yet delivers what is at times a hilarious performance. Jerry Lewis gives what has to be the best performance of his career as Langford, a character that I'm certain allowed him to tap into his personal experience with obsessive fans, balancing his need to be kind to his public while also protecting his own privacy. It would be easy to write Langford off as the villain of the piece, the guy who continually shuns Puplkin and won't give him his big break, but Lewis brings a reality to the part where you feel bad for him and almost understand why he's a bit of a jerk when having to deal with crazed fans. The scene were Langford walks down a busy NYC street and politely greets fans, says canned witty retorts he's said a million times before, and in the end really just wants to get where he's going is pure cinematic magic. When the one woman at a phone booth begs him to speak to her nephew Morris and Langford politely says he's running late, how quickly she turns on him saying, \"You should only get cancer! I hope you get cancer!\" is hilarious and at the same time extremely sad for Langford, who has likely experienced this many times before. While Scorsese makes his visual presence not as pronounced in \"The King of Comedy,\" his sensibilities still pervade this a dark comic classic."
"12" "King of Comedy was so far ahead of it's time when released in 1982 that no-one understood it, not even the critics. What seemed implausible and bizarre 25+ years ago is today's unfortunate reality. With our current celebrity universe packed with ridiculous no-hopers like Joe the Plumber and \"OctoMom\"--i.e. \"stars\" who attained their fame/infamy purely through outlandish behaviour--an obnoxious , no talent train wreck like Rupert Pupkin would be in constant demand for reality TV and talk shows everywhere. Hell, he'd probably even get married to Carmen Electra or Britney Spears-if only for a couple of days. Scorsese captured lightning in a bottle with this film (even if he still doesn't realize or acknowledge it) and Robert DeNiro hit a creative peak with his depiction of the desperate unfunnyman Pupkin that he hasn't approached since."
"13" "Fantastic but Hardly a Fun Film from Scorsese, this Dark Comedy is more Dark than Comedic. It contains Spot-On Performances from Robert De Niro, Jerry Lewis, and Sandra Bernhardt. The Direction and Tone of the Movie are Taxing, Gruelling, and Without much Release. Watching it the Audience Feels Frustrated, just like De Niro and Bernhardt. It leaves You Breathless at times and Never, until the Very End is there a Sense of any Oxygen in the Environment.Containing some Stunning Minimalist Visuals and Surreal Imagery (like Rupert's basement), the Movie is an Odd Duck, just like Pupkin. Some Folks were Thrown a Curve initially when a Movie with this Title, Starring Jerry Lewis, turned out to be a Satirical Commentary on Celebrity and Rejection. The Film Gripped Like a Python and Squeezed Until it Hurt.It was a Flop when Released but has since gained a Cult Following and is Now Considered one of Scorsese and De Niro's most Underrated Movies both Individually and Together. Also, the Casting and Performance from Jerry Lewis is Inspired and Genuinely Great.Recommended for Fans of the Avant-Garde, Scorsese, De Niro, and those Seeking Offbeat Social Commentary, and Cutting Edge Cinema.Note...For more unusual Martin Scorsese Movies, check out After Hours (1985) and Kundan (1997)."
"14" "This hugely underrated film is one of Martin Scorsese's best, and further proof that as a director he has much more range than many might give him credit for.Robert De Niro and Jerry Lewis deliver pitch-perfect performances as a stand-up comic wannabe and a popular T.V. personality, respectively, when their worlds collide due to De Niro's (whose character's name, Rupert Pupkin, has to be one of the most perfect ever created for a movie role) fanatic devotion to his idol. It's a subject uncomfortably familiar to Scorsese, given the obsession Ronald Reagan's attempted assassin, John Hinckley, had with Jodie Foster, largely because of her performance in \"Taxi Driver.\" The tone and storyline to this film were incredibly tricky to pull off. If those involved had carried the humour and slapstick elements of it too far, it might have come across as glib; but if they played up the disturbing elements too much, it would have ceased to be funny and would have seemed like a warm-over of \"Taxi Driver.\" As it is, I don't see how the film could be better. De Niro makes his character warm and endearing enough to keep you sympathetic with him, while making him menacing enough to take seriously, while Lewis for once shows himself adept at playing the straight guy, and gives a spectacular performance as a hang-dog celebrity whose quiet and sober personal demeanor is at odds with that of his on-screen personality.And praise also must go to Sandra Bernhard, who gives a delightfully wacky take on another aspiring star and accomplice to Rupert, whose plans go awry in hilarious and unpredictable ways. Bernhard is a ball of energy here, and I've never liked her better.This is truly a must-see film.Grade: A+"
"15" "While everyone else has mentioned many of the qualities of this film, for me the thing that makes it great is that the director shows us Rupert's imagination/hallucinations but does nothing to distinguish these hallucinations from the rest of the film.  In effect, the audience is seeing the world the way that Rupert does and it is up to the individual viewer to decide which scenes are real and which one's are Rupert's hallucinations.So in other words, you have to think.  What an innovative idea!"
"16" "I have yet to meet anyone who doesn't like this movie. It is hugely funny in places yet has a dark menacing strand running through it. Jerry Lewis and his TV-show world are totally believeable and De Niro as Pupkin plays the part like an exercise in total embarrassment.Also, much as you realise Pupkin is derranged,you can't help being on his side. One of the highlights is Pupkin's monologue. This is really  well written and will remind most people of every bad comedian they have ever heard.The jokes are terrible but Pupkin's delivery seems just able to carry it off. When this movie was made the studio sat on it for two years before it was released.They probably did not know how to sell a movie like this.Sure it is an intelligent piece of work etc. but it is a most unusual film ,really quite unique.In the UK,it was barely released in cinemas and for years it was not even available on tape.Strange, because it really is a most excellent movie."
"17" "THE KING OF COMEDY is Martin Scorsese's strangest film, something so different from his other work but still frighteningly good. Up until 1983, he had perfectly captured small-time hoods, New York insomnia, and raging boxers, amongst other topics. With this picture, he does a 180 and displays yet another side of New York paranoia in the form of celebrity-obsessed freaks. \"Rupert Pupkin\", as played by Robert De Niro, is a complete nut, a loose cannon not seen before in films this way. De Niro becomes \"Pupkin\" and creates a stunningly sad and demented character. His verbal thoughts and disillusionment are hilarious, and his screaming mother reminds us that they are illusions. \"Shut up Rupert\" yells his Mom when Rupert gets out of hand interviewing a cardboard Liza Minelli in his basement. The real performance to catch is Jerry Lewis as a Johnny Carson clone, an understated, realistic portrayal of a talk-show host who has had enough and seen it all.None of Scorsese's typical techniques are here, but no matter. Maybe a couple of quick zooms and some camera bulbs splashing, but nothing like the fluid movement seen in his other flicks. He presents a brutal portrait of a very real epidemic; the stalking of celebrities who have access to an audience the stalkers could never fathom. Just listen to Howard Stern and you will hear at least one \"Rupert Pupkin\" a day, trying to gain attention with crank calls or unannounced appearances. This is an art film that does not tell a story in straight narrative whatsoever. A loony De Niro and an even more sick Sandra Bernhard (in a truly memorable performance) make for quite a scene, especially after De Niro loses the last glint of sanity he has. They both want the fame but have no realistic idea of how to achieve it except to pursue Jerry Lewis' character night and day. Surprisingly, it actually works for one of them.For an absolutely funny and offbeat experience, see THE KING OF COMEDY. Scorsese is so good at recreating a mood or a period, usually composed of mobsters, tortured women, or whacked-out civilians. Here, he perfectly creates something fresh and real with two superstars (De Niro & Lewis) at the top of their game, with De Niro splurging and Lewis playing someone who may not be that far from who he really is. If you think about it, there is a Rupert Pupkin in us all, isn't there?"
"18" "Though comparing Rupert Pupkin with Jake La Motta and Travis Bickle is not entirely inappropriate, The King of Comedy was a decisive change of pace for both De Niro and Scorsese. At this point De Niro was already a major star, having made his bones not only in Scorsese masterpieces like 'Mean Streets' and 'Taxi Driver' but also in Cimino's classic 'The Deer Hunter' and of course as the young Vito Corleone in 'The Godfather Part 2'. He already had at this point two Oscars under his belt, one for Best Supporting Actor ('The Godfather Part 2') and one for Best Leading Actor ('Raging Bull'), plus two more nominations. And it was at this point that Scorsese cast him in a bizarre and off-beat dark comedy alongside slapstick legend Jerry Lewis.The King of Comedy was, not entirely surprisingly, a flop, the biggest commercial fiasco Scorsese had since he first reached major recognition with 'Mean Streets'. Reviewing it today, it seems like 'The King of Comedy' was years ahead of its time, and underneath a couple of cheap laughs it has disturbing dark undertones that make it one of the most fascinating creations in Scorsese's career. Jerry Lewis plays not the goofy kind of character he's famous for, but is actually quite impressive playing straight man for Robert De Niro, who is nothing short of brilliant (as he always was when working with Scorsese). De Niro plays Rupert Pupkin, an aspiring but obnoxious stand-up comedian who is certain that talk-show superstar Jerry Langford (Lewis) is the one who will help him get to the top. When he realizes that no help is coming his way, Pupkin resorts to desperate measures and kidnaps Langford in order to force him to give him a spot on his show.The premise doesn't sound like much, but it's the construction of Pupkin's character that makes it a truly fascinating watch. Pupkin is ambitious, enthusiastic and eager to please; yet behind his cheerful smile and perfect manners a twisted brain works, as he creates for himself a fantasy world in which he and Langford are best buddies. In a way, Rupert is similar to Travis Bickle from Taxi Driver <U+0096> like him, he's an almost naïve idealist who resorts to violence to achieve his goals in face of the harsh world surrounding him. But Rupert, who seems at first like a harmless eccentric, becomes creepier and more disturbing <U+0096> and at the same time, almost identifiable <U+0096> as the film goes by, up to the controversial and disturbing finale. A nice addition is the character of Masha (stand-up comic Sandra Bernhard), Pupkin's eerie sidekick (though exactly how she knows him is unclear), who also has an imaginary relationship with Langford and helps Pupkin with his plans in order to get her own. Masha is in there mainly for laughs, but she also does well in shedding a different light on Pupkin's character, and the interplay between the two is wonderful; Pupkin thinks that Masha is imagining things and treats her with disregard <U+0096> while Masha, of course, holds pretty much the same opinion about Pupkin. Bernhard finally grants one of the film's most poignant moments when she passionately sings Ray Charles's 'Come Rain Or Come Shine' to a tied and gagged Langford.The King of Comedy is a disturbing film to watch and is not to be taken at face value. It's well recommended, though, a masterpiece by Scorsese that somehow got lost in his huge pile of classics. It's maybe not as universal as Taxi Driver, but it's just as timeless and just as sensitive and inventive. Essential for fans of Scorsese and of De Niro."
"19" "Like \"Rope\", the long-forgotten experimental 1948 film that serves as the official Hitchcock/Stewart sleeper, \"The King Of Comedy\" is the equivalent of such for Scorsese & De Niro.  Indeed, its not as ambitious as most Scorsese films but it is nonetheless compelling.  As Rupert Pupkin, De Niro is a hapless loser posing as an amateur comedian, clinging to the idea of being \"discovered\" by a Johnny Carson type celebrity named Jerry Langford - (played wonderfully by Jerry Lewis, what a great casting choice that was!) - that Rupert is obsessed over.  Rupert finds some solace in fellow stalker Marsha, whose yearnings to meet Langford are even more selfish than his. Meanwhile, Rupert seeks validation for his meek efforts through Rita, an attractive nearby bartender.  Once it becomes apparent that neither Langford nor Rita would ever acknowledge Rupert (or Marsha in Langford's case), Rupert and Marsha take matters - and Jerry - into their own hands.This obviously was overlooked by the public due to its less-than-volatile subject matter we're all accustomed to seeing from Scorsese.  Also, Scorsese doesn't really dispense any of his arsenal of camera and editing tricks (partly because he doesn't have to), the travels inside the mind of Rupert are frightening enough, especially the 'fantasy' segments, where not only does Rupert imagine a meteoric rise to fame by way of Jerry Langford, but he also becomes Langford's confidant.  The television wedding is one of the most funny and frightening scenes I've seen; it's funny to observe how it unfolds, it's scary to think that Rupert is seriously wishing for all this to happen.The film, via Rupert's warped brain and Jerry's tarnished spirit, illustrate the devastating effects of fame - both on the celebrity and the person who watches them.  Towards the end (I won't really ruin it for you), Langford passes by an electronics store, he sees Rupert's face on his own TV show; the price of celebrity Langford must pay is explained quickly and in complete silence, all that's required is a close-up of Jerry staring back at the germ of a monster he unknowingly helped create.  Like \"Raging Bull\", this film was proposed by De Niro, who asked Scorsese to write & direct it for him.  Sandra Bernhard and Diane Abbott are also great as women who who wish to deny Rupert their attention because he's so annoying but at some point they give in because he seems so  harmless.  Aside from the overall great performances from De Niro and Lews, Lewis also delivers a very grounded monologue about the everyman's misconception of fame.  And how can you not love Scorsese's ambiguous ending?  It suggests that maybe none of this ever happened at all.  An overlooked masterpiece from the great duo."
"20" "A serious movie but still one great black comedy. De Niro is hilarious as a demented wanna be comedian who longs for fame at any price. The basement scenes where De Niro's fantasy world is constantly interrupted by his mother are surreal.  A sad, but truly funny comment on American culture. De Niro took a real chance portraying this unlikeable character,  but he really pulls it off."
"21" "The King of Comedy is a dramatic comedy about a man called Rupert Pupkin, played by Robert De Niro.Rupert wants to be a comedian.His idol, talk-show host Jerry Langford (Jerry Lewis) comes to town to have a show.Rupert wants to be like Jerry, so he shows him some of his jokes that he has done.But Rupert doesn't succeed, so he kidnaps Jerry with his even more psychotic friend Marsha, played by Sandra Bernhard.So maybe that would help Rupert.And it does. Rupert gets to have his show on TV.But just one time.But he succeeds in it.The King of Comedy is a great movie.Robert De Niro and Jerry Lewis are great actors and they are just great together.Great film."
"22" "While The King of Comedy lacks the bloody violence so prevalent in Scorcese's more popular work, this film is filled with the dark undertones that are a trademark in this director's work.  Taxi Driver allowed the audience to peer into the inner world of a psychotic.  The King of Comedy plops the audience right into the mind of a fanatic.  Robert DeNiro is Rupert Pupkin, a wishy-washy, yet determined loser, desperate to be famous at any cost.  His idol and mentor is Jerry Langford (played by Jerry Lewis), a late night talk show host (a la Johnny Carson), who Rupert sees as his ticket to the top.  The film opens on a somewhat disturbing note, with Langford being mobbed by autograph hounds.  When he escapes into the back of his limo he is suddenly accosted by Marsha (played by Sandra Bernhard), a madwoman who would do anything to sleep with him.  It is here that we meet Rupert, who uses the opportunity to get a brief meeting with the star.  The story seems typical so far.  Rupert is an opportunist, a struggling comedian looking for a break.  He asks Jerry to appear on his show.  We know that Rupert isn't working with a full deck when Jerry tells him to call his people, and Rupert can't see that this is just a brush off.
This is no ordinary story about someone trying to make it show business. Soon we see what goes on inside Pupkin's head.  His fantasies of Jerry swooning over him, begging him to host the show are played out.  Pupkin's room is a set.  He has cardboard cutouts of Jerry and Liza Minelli and uses them to play out his fantasies.  As Rupert laughs and cavorts with these life-size figures we can hear the canned laughter that echoes inside his head.  There is nothing funny about Rupert.  He life is sad and his behavior is eerie.  This is movie about fame.  Everyone dreams about it once in awhile.  Rupert Pupkin lives with this dream all the time.  He truly believes that he belongs up there. Rupert flirts with Rita (Diahnne Abbott), a barmaid who he thinks might just believe in him.  He invites her to be a part of his make believe world, leading her on to think that one day he will be hobnobbing with the stars and assuming that to her this is all that matters.
The story paints an interesting picture of the other man, Jerry Langford. This character has achieved what everyone else in the story can only dream of.  Yet ironically, he is miserable, cranky and paranoid.  When he walks out of the studio in broad daylight, he likes to be in crowds, 'he feels safer that way.'  While Rupert tries to separate himself from the crowd, Jerry is desperate to get in.  Bernhard's character, Marsha, is another story altogether.  It seems apparent that she has inherited money.  She doesn't work and she doesn't need to.  She spends her time, not looking for her own fame, but looking to mate with it.  Jerry Langford is not a stepping stone, but rather her goal.  As the movie rolls along, and as Rupert is beset by one obstacle after another, we are never really sure of his true potential.  We aren't privy to the jokes and one liners that are his stand up act.  That all comes out at the end.  Good or bad, what we witness is Rupert pouring his heart out. Pupkin, like most Scorcese characters, is a soul in pain, willing to go to drastic lengths just to be heard.  For Rupert Pupkin, fame is happiness, the only escape from the hell that is his life."
"23" "Chilly film about a star-monger who dreams of hosting a \"Tonight Show\"-type TV program. Director Martin Scorsese takes a cold, almost clinical approach to this dark comedy: he means to fill it with abrasive vipers, but aside from being purposefully off-putting I couldn't see his point. Robert De Niro is all on one-note as repugnant Rupert Pupkin, Sandra Bernhard makes herself into a harpy as an early variant of the star-stalker, Jerry Lewis plays the Johnny Carson role in an effective low key; also, Shelley Hack is attractive as Jerry's secretary. There isn't anything else going on or much to laugh at, the characters being so sour. I'm not sure how Scorsese wants his audience to react to this material. It's the self-important mired in self-hatred. ** from ****"
"24" "Though 'The King of Comedy' stands on its own two feet (and quite well, I might add), it bares a striking resemblance to 'Taxi Driver'.Aside from the blatant Scorsese-De Niro connection, both films center on similar characters, though that is not to say they're identical. Whereas Travis Bickle's persona was built around loneliness, Rupert Pupkin's was built around obsession.However, each character has an inherent violence that bubbles underneath the surface. In 'Taxi Driver', Travis Bickle gives into the pressures mounting within and kills three people at the film's end. With 'The King of Comedy', however, Rupert Pupkin's violence never really erupts. You're always watching him, waiting for something to happen that never does. Acts that seems like they might be frightening and violent turn out to be rather comical and pathetic (i.e., the kidnapping of Jerry Langford). His self-important feelings of being a \"great\" stand-up keep his energies focused on his dream, so he's constantly occupied; with Travis Bickle, however, there was nothing and no one to keep him from going over the edge.Though Rupert claims Jerry Langford to be his idol, he really just wants to be bigger than Jerry. In Rupert's fantasy conversations with Jerry, Rupert is always the one in charge, while Jerry is always begging and telling Rupert how great he is. One fantasy sequence involves Rupert and a surprise marriage to a high school crush on the Jerry Langford show. Rupert's high school principal, who is now a justice of the peace, performs the ceremony and tells everyone how wrong he and all the bullies in high school were for picking on Rupert. What Rupert wants is vindication. He wants all those who once looked down on him to beg for forgiveness so that he can, in turn, look down on them.Toward the end of the film, when Rupert makes it on TV, his jokes aren't that funny, but that's not the point. The audience laughs. It has been trained to laugh. That's what audience's are supposed to do when a comedian comes on. Plus, if he's on TV, he must be good. Everyone at the bar, watching his performance, was not so much amused by the material as by the fact that Rupert made it on TV. He was a celebrity.The film closes much like 'Taxi Driver'. In these two films, both characters went to prison, only served part of their sentences, and received vindication upon their release. With Travis, he was once again paired with the woman he had obsessed over earlier. And, as for Rupert, he became a pop culture icon. Probably with his own obsessed following.'The King of Comedy' is one of Scorsese's best, despite its initial failure. It's truly a dark comedy with 90% of the emphasis on the word \"dark.\" De Niro gives a great performance. Coming off the success of his brutish role in 'Raging Bull', he is able to deftly switch over to a comical role, the type of guy that his character in 'Raging Bull' would have beat up. And Sandra Bernhard! Performing her role as an obsessive compulsive, manic depressive so well that she probably had doctors all over the country writing her prescriptions based on her performance."
